#summary 处理URL

= 处理URL =

As you see, WebWind does not require any particular interface, and allows 
multiple methods put together in one class. Each method can handle one URL 
defined by `@Mapping` annotation.

The method you defined to handle URL must have following requirements:

  * It must be `public`, it must not be `static`.
  * It must return `void`, `String` or `org.expressme.wind.Renderer`.
  * Its arguments must be supported by WebWind. See [DeveloperMapping#Supported_Types_of_Arguments Supported types of arguments].
  * The number of arguments must be equals to the number of parameters in URL.

Method can throw any type of exception.

= Definition of URL =

WebWind uses regular expression to handle URL internally. However, regular 
expression is not easy to write correctly. So the definition of URL in 
WebWind uses human-readable format like `/user/$1/$2.html`.

When you define the URL with parameters, WebWind can pass these parameters 
to the method as arguments. The placeholder of parameters in URL is `$`, and 
its index starts from 1, maximum to 9, which means you can pass at most 9 parameters.

Each `$n` (n=1 to 9) will match the particular group of URL. It may match the 
empty string, but it does *NOT* match any string contains `/`, which means:

`/user/$1.html` will match `/user/123456.html`, but not match `/user/123/456.html`.

Such definitions of URL are invalid:

  * /user/$2.html: Because no $1 found.
  * /blog/$1/$3.html: Because no $2 found.

Such definitions of URL are valid but not recommended:

  * /user/$1$2.html: Because $1 will always the empty string.
  * $1.html: It cannot match any URL because URL always starts with `/`.

Parameters in URL will automatically converted to the actual types of arguments 
in method. For example:

{{{
@Mapping("/user/$1/$2.html")
public void handle(long userId, int postId) throws Exception {
    // $1 is converted to long, $2 is converted to int...
}
}}}

= 支持的参数类型 =

Not all the Java types of arguments of method can be supported, because 
WebWind must convert the string to the particular Java type of argument. 
The build-in supported types are `java.lang.String` and all primitive types 
as well as its wrapper types (int, Integer, boolean, Boolean, etc.).

|| 类型 || 转换 || 异常 ||
|| java.lang.String || The same || none ||
|| boolean, Boolean || Boolean.valueOf(String) || none ||
|| char, Character || String.charAt(0) || IllegalArgumentException ||
|| byte, Byte || Byte.parse(String) || NumberFormatException ||
|| short, Short || Short.parse(String) || NumberFormatException ||
|| int, Integer || Integer.parse(String) || NumberFormatException ||
|| long, Long || Long.parse(String) || NumberFormatException ||
|| float, Float || Float.parse(String) || NumberFormatException ||
|| double, Double || Double.parse(String) || NumberFormatException ||

TODO: How to add more types
